Do you know what time it is?
Most of us are conscious of time every day.
We have a time to go to work,
a time to go to school, a time to eat,
a time for our Christian meetings,
and even a time for association
with our dear friends.
As the Great Timekeeper,
Jehovah reminds us at Ecclesiastes 3:1
that there is a proper “time for everything.”
And thus, it’s not surprising
that the Bible speaks
of the right time for various events.
For example, at Leviticus 26:4,
Jehovah promised the obedient Israelites
that he would bless them
with “showers of rain at [the] proper time.”
Well, that’s just a detail, probably,
for most of us.
But if you’ve ever lived
in a farming community
or you’ve done farming yourself,
you know that rain at the right time
can give you a bumper crop,
but rain at the wrong time
can completely destroy that same crop.
Even words can be spoken at the right time.
Proverbs 15:23 says:
“A word spoken at the right time
—how good it is!”
Truly, it is a fundamental principle
that timing is everything.
Well, think for a moment
about prophesied events
that took place right on time.
Jesus was baptized at precisely the time
when the Messiah was prophesied to appear.
The Kingdom began its heavenly rule
right on time in 1914.
And looking to the future, Jesus said
that Jehovah has set the time,
even the exact day and the hour,
for the end of this wicked system of things.
Does the Governing Body know
when Armageddon is going to come?
Yes, we do.
It’s going to come right on time.
We have full confidence in that
—don’t we?—
that Jehovah is going to bring about
those earth-shaking events
exactly on time.
But there is something else
that Jehovah has promised
to provide at the proper time.
Would you go to your Bibles?
Let’s look at Matthew chapter 24
and verse 45.
Now, here Jesus posed this question:
“Who really is
the faithful and discreet slave
“whom his master appointed
over his domestics,
“to give them their food
“at the proper time?
“Happy is that slave if his master
“on coming finds him doing so!
“Truly I say to you, he will appoint him
over all his belongings.”
Well, what did Jesus say here?
He said that he would appoint
a “faithful and discreet slave”
who would provide the spiritual food.
But there is another important detail there
—did you notice it?
He added “at the proper time.”
Well, because of Jehovah’s
perfect sense of time,
he knows exactly what his people need
and he knows exactly the right time
to provide it.
Now, just consider
a couple of examples of this.
Just as World War II was erupting,
the November 1, 1939, issue of The Watchtower
featured an in-depth discussion
of the topic of neutrality.
That timing was absolutely perfect.
Because of those articles,
our brothers worldwide
knew exactly what to do
as the war engulfed the entire planet.
Well, after the war
as the organization was rapidly growing,
Jehovah’s organization arranged
large international conventions
that were held in New York City.
In 1958, a quarter of a million people
—can you imagine?—
overflowed Yankee Stadium
and the Polo Grounds.
Were any of you there?
Well, it’s so wonderful that we still have
a few people who were there.
It’s not that I wasn’t
in the truth at that time;
it’s just that I wasn’t
in the world at that time.
Well, that amazing convention
came just on time.
It energized God’s people
and, we could say,
it put Jehovah’s Witnesses on the map.
It was hard to ignore a convention
of a quarter of a million people.
Well, fast forward to 2020
at a time when the world was engulfed
in a global pandemic.
Large gatherings were prohibited
in most countries.
Could we go to Yankee Stadium and have
250,000 people there?
No.
But right on time,
Jehovah guided
“the faithful and discreet slave”
so that our worldwide brotherhood
could enjoy the convention program from home
—truly, spiritual “food
at the proper time.”
And during the pandemic, we’ve had
to change our methods, haven’t we?
We’ve had to receive direction
about how to carry out our preaching work
and how to carry out
our congregation meetings.
But throughout this period, we have received
powerful, powerful evidence
that Jehovah has given this direction to us
at the proper time.
Now, let me just give you
a couple of examples.
During the 2021 service year,
at least 22 branches
have reported an all-time peak
in the number of publishers.
Can you imagine—during the pandemic?
For example, the Korea branch
has reported a new peak in publishers
every month during the 2021 service year.
Isn’t that amazing—during a pandemic?
And with so many wonderful things
happening in the field,
I’m sure that you’re all wondering
about our worldwide Memorial attendance
for 2021.
Well, by the undeserved kindness
of our amazing God, Jehovah,
we have reached an all-time peak,
crossing the 21 million mark.
Would you like to know the exact figure?
Well, “keep on the watch”!
It’ll be announced today at the proper time.
Well, today in our program,
we are going to have a wonderful buffet
of rich spiritual food
of many varieties and types.
And by the end of the program,
I’m sure that you’ll agree
that it was just what we needed
at this moment in time.